h2. About django-mediacat

@django-mediacat@ is a small app with only one view, which lets you retrieve
several media files from the server with only one HTTP request.

h3. Rationale

Usually, designers and developers like to spread CSS and JavaScript files out
into several files on the web server, and then request only the necessary
files for each web page. Whilst this approach is more modular, and hence
prevents the downloading of unnecessary files, the fragmentation also incurs a
significant performance hit on the web server, as each part represents the
overhead of a full HTTP request.

h3. How django-mediacat Helps

What @django-mediacat@ does is allow you to set up several 'aliases'; short
names for media files on the web server. These can then be queried from one
URL, and @django-mediacat@ will concatenate all requested files into one,
eliminating the overhead of multiple HTTP requests. Because JavaScript and CSS
don't use namespaces, this concatenation is safe (but some wizards might write
code that proves otherwise, so always make sure).

h2. Usage

h3. Installation

First, add @'mediacat'@ to your @INSTALLED_APPS@ list in your project's
@settings.py@. Then, add to your project a URLconf directive to the
'mediacat.views.cat' view, with any URL you wish, like so:
    
    from django.conf.urls.defaults import *
    urlpatterns = patterns('',
        (r'^media/cat/$', 'mediacat.views.cat'),
    )

You also need to set up the Django admin site on your project, in order to add
aliases. I won't go into it here, just consult
"the Django docs":http://docs.djangoproject.com for more information.

h3. Aliases and Groups

The basic concept at the core of concatenating files is the *alias*. Each
alias represents a single file on the filesystem. Multiple aliases can point
to one file. Each alias may also be a member of a group, which may be the
child of another group. The *canonical name* of an alias is composed of a
period-separated list of the name of the alias, the name of its group, and the
name of that group's parent, and so on.

Suppose, for example, there was a group called @js@, with a subgroup called
@mootools@, which has an alias called @core@. The canonical name of this alias
would, therefore, be @core.mootools.js@. This method of naming gives files
with clear and concise names.

The @django-mediacat@ admin site is very self-explanatory; just create your
groups, attach to those groups your aliases, and you're done.

h3. Using django-mediacat

In order to concatenate a set of aliases into one file, simply request the URL
you have pointed to the @mediacat.views.cat@ view, adding GET keys with no
value to the query string, like this:

    http://example.com/media/cat/?core.mootools.js&fx.mootools.js&jquery.js

As you can see, each GET parameter represents one media alias, and none have
any values. This will return the concatenation of the three files represented
by the aliases @core.mootools.js@, @fx.mootools.js@ and @jquery.js@, in the
order they were provided.

h2. Extra Info

h3. Compatibility

This app is fully compatible with Django's other middleware (@django-mediacat@
has no middleware itself), and a significant effort has been made to cache the
data on the client-side, using the @ETags@ and @Last-Modified@ HTTP headers. This means that, again, the number of HTTP requests from each client will be
minimized.

When you change a media file on disk, it is recommendable to invalidate the
app's caches. This can be done merely by calling the @save()@ method with no
arguments on each model instance; a handy management command has been provided
to help do this. To invalidate @django-mediacat@'s caches, issue the following
command at the terminal:

	$ python manage.py mediaclean

This will invalidate all of @django-mediacat@'s caches (which may take a
while). If, however, you'd prefer to refresh just one file (i.e. one you've made changes to), you can do the following:

 	$ python manage.py mediaclean alias1.group1.js alias2.group2.css

This will invalidate only the aliases given.
